---
title: Paper accepted at XAI-2024!
layout: post
post-image: "https://www.bifold.berlin/fileadmin/user_upload/Events/TeaserEvents/2024_26_02_teaser_2XAiConference_Events.png"
description: One of our student projects on interpretable ML for TabPFN got accepted at the XAI!
tags:
- aistats
- papers
---

Our paper *Interpretable Machine Learning for TabPFN* was accepted at the XAI-2024.

### Abstract 

The recently developed Prior-Data Fitted Networks (PFNs) have shown very promising results for applications in low-data regimes. The TabPFN model, a special case of PFNs for tabular data, is able to achieve state-of-the-art performance on a variety of classification tasks while producing posterior predictive distributions in mere seconds by in-context learning without the need for learning parameters or hyperparameter tuning. This makes TabPFN a very attractive option for a wide range of domain applications. However, a major drawback of the method is its lack of interpretability. Therefore, we propose several adaptations of popular interpretability methods that we specifically design for TabPFN. By taking advantage of the unique properties of the model, our adaptations allow for more efficient computations than existing implementations. In particular, we show how in-context learning facilitates the estimation of Shapley values by avoiding approximate retraining and enables the use of Leave-One-Covariate-Out (LOCO) even when working with large-scale Transformers. In addition, we demonstrate how data valuation methods can be used to address scalability challenges of TabPFN. 

[Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10923)
